JMSC-72: Improve docs on Thread pool optimizations (#1619)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/transaction-management.adoc

----

[[tx_scopes_routers]]

> == How Transactions Affect Scopes, Routers and Execution Type Selection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== How Transactions Affect Scopes, Routers and Processing Type Selection
```

Reviewer 2: 👍  for me

Any other router or scope (for example, Foreach) continues with the transaction and its behavior is not modified.

> === Execution Engine Selection

Reviewer 2: should not be: "Execution Type Selection" ? because there is just one execution engine, but different execution types.

> Event processors provide hints to the runtime on which xref:execution-engine.adoc[Execution Engine] should be used to perform their task. As transaction scopes are set to run on the same thread, the Execution Engine hint will be ignored.

Reviewer 2: reword based on the above's comment

> Event processors provide hints to the runtime on which xref:execution-engine.adoc[Processing Type] should be used to perform their task. As transaction scopes are set to run on the same thread, the Processing Type hint will be ignored.

Reviewer 2: Based that this doc is about "Transaction Managemenet" in the first phrase I would mention that is the "normal behaviour in non TX context" something like:
`When processing a flow outside of a transaction, Operations in the flow hints to the runtime on whcih....`
`When processing a flow inside of a transaction, the operations hin'ts are ignored and all the transaction is get's executed in the same flow`

Any other router or scope (for example, Foreach) continues with the transaction and its behavior is not modified.

=== Execution Engine Processing Type Selection

> 
> Event processors provide hints to the runtime on which xref:execution-engine.adoc[Processing Type] should be used to perform their task. As transaction scopes are set to run on the same thread, the Processing Type hint will be ignored.
> 
> In other words, when processing a flow outside of a transaction, operations in the flow hints the runtime about the Execution Engine Processing Type Selection. When processing a flow inside a transaction, the operations hints are ignored at all and all the transaction is executed in the same Execution Engine Processing Type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Event processors provide information to Mule runtime engine about which xref:execution-engine.adoc[Processing Type] is best to execute the required task. Using this information, Mule executes the processor in the corresponding thread. However, this behavior changes when there's a transaction scope in a flow:

* Event processors outside of a transaction scope
+
When Mule executes processors outside of a transaction scope, the Processing Type selection is honored.
* Event processors inside of a transaction scope
+
Because transaction scopes run on the same thread, Mule ignores information about the Processing Type when executing processors as part of a transaction.
```

Reviewer 2: 👍  for me
